                            A Tiny Feast by Chris Adrian


  It took them both a long time to understand that the boy was sick, though she would point out that she had been the
  first to notice that he was unhappy, and had sought to remedy his discontent with sweeter treats and more delightful
  distractions. She thought it was evidence that she loved him more -- that she had noticed first that something was
  wrong -- and she said as much to her husband, when they were still trying to outdo each other in love for the child.


  Neither of them had much experience with illness. They had each taken many mortal lovers, but had cast them off before
  could become old or infirm, and all their previous changelings had stayed healthy until they were returned, unaged and
  unstuck from their proper times, to the mortal world. "There was no way you could have known" said Dr. Blork,
  the junior partner in the two-person team that oversaw the boy's care, on their very first visit with him.
  "Parents always feel like they ought to have caught it earlier, but really it's the same for everyone, and you couldn't
  have done any better than you did." He was trying to make them feel better, assuage a perceived guilt, but at
  that point neither Titania nor her husband really knew what guilt was, never having felt it in all their long days.

  They were in the hospital, not far from the park on the hill under which they made their home, in the middle of the
  night  -- early for them, since they slept all day under the hill and had taught the boy to do the same, but the
  doctors, Beadle and Blork, were obviously fatigued. The four of them were sitting at a table in a small windowless
  conference room, the doctors on one side, the parents on the other. The boy was back in his room, drugged with morphine,
  sleeping peacefully for the first time in days. The doctors were explaining things, earnestly and patiently, but Titainia
  was having trouble following alone.

  "A boy should not be sick," she said suddenly to Dr. Blork, cutting him off as he was beginning to describe some of the side effects
  of the treatment they were proposing. "A boy should play -- that is his whole purpose."

  "It's hard to see him like this," Dr. Blork said, after a glance at his superior, "and I'm so sorry that your beautiful
  boy is so sick. It's going to be a long haul, and he may be sicker he's better, but we'll get him through it." He started
  talking again then about the specifics, the drugs they would use -- the names seemed rather demonic and which parts
  must be done in the hospital. This was all of a sudden very boring. She waved her hand at them, a gesture practiced
  over centuries, and even though there was no magic in it, Blork was instantly quiet.

  "You will do your mortal thing," she sadly. "I know all I need to know."

  "Pardon me?" Dr. Blork said.

  "Leukemia!" Oberon said, breaking the silence he'd maintained all through the meeting, and it sounded as if he were somehow
  trying out the idea behind the word. He was smiling, and crying into his lovely beard. "Can you cure it?"

  "Yes!" said Dr. Blork. But Dr. Beadle said, "Maybe."

  She could not remember the quarrel that had brought her the boy. A real or perceived dalliance or slight, a transgression on her part
  or her husband's -- who knew? They had been quarrelling for as long as they had been in love. She forgot the quarrels as soon as they
  were resolved, but the gifts her husband brought her to reconcile -- even when she was at fault --
  she never forgot. The boy had been one of those gifts, brought home to the hill, stolen from his crib in the dark of the night and
  presented to her by dawn. "That is not sufficient to your crime against me," she remembered as well that she barely paid the child any
  mind during her restless sleep, except to push it away from her when it rolled too close. Oberon had rubbed poppies on its eyes to quiet
  its crying, so it was still sleeping soundly when she woke. For a while she lay on her back watching the stars come out upon the ceiling
  of her back, watching the stars come out upon the ceiling of her grotto, listening to the little snores. Oberon was snoring more
  magnificently. She turned on her side to better look at it, and noticed for the first time how comely, how round and smooth were its face
  and shoulders and belly, how lustrous was its hair. It made a troubled face as it slept. She put her hand out to touch it, just very lightly.
  Right away it sighed and lost the troubled look, but then it gave a moan. She draped her hand over its shoulder, and when it did not quiet
  she rolled it closer to her. It stopped moaning only when she held it in her arms, and put her nose in its hair, and breathed in its
  scent -- poppies and milk and warm earth. Oberon had woken, and was looking at her and smiling, propped on one elbow with a hand against
  his ear, the other lost under the sheets, but she could hear that he was scratching himself."Do you like it?" he asked.

  "I am indifferent to it," she said, holding the boy closer, and squeezing him, and putting her face in his neck.

  "This place is so ugly," Titania said. "Can anything be done about that?" She was talking to the oncology social worker, one of a stream
  of visiting strangers who came to the room, and a woman who had described herself as a person to whom one might address problems or questions
  that no one else could solve or answer."Nonmedical things," she had said."You know -- everything else!"

  
